# SnakesAndLadders


This is a dice based game with a grid of hundred boxes and few  snakes and ladders placed along the way. Player token moves according to random number generated by dice and when token goes beyond hundred, player wins. As it is based on random number generated by dice, his game doesn’t require any skill. It rather involves all the luck and un elements such as landing on a ladder base or being bitten by a snake. I don’t play games usually. Once upon a time, I used to play Snakes and ladders :) So I have childhood memories associated with it. I could have learned another new game and tried to deploy that, but it made me more excited to transform something from my memories into a web game and experience this whole process!
 
Enjoy!

## Screenshots:



Technologies Used: HTML , CSS, JavaScript,Flexbox, Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG)

## Getting Started:

### Link:  https://mrskamran.github.io/SnakesAndLadders/

### Instructions:

This game offers 3 options:
	Option 1 is when one player plays a game alone. 
	Option 2 is when two players play and the game ends when one of them wins. 
	Option 3 is when one player plays the game with computer.
So you should choose the number of players accordingly. The choose player input box will be disabled once you choose it.

Once the number of players is chosen, you’ll see choose token color option. Choose a color of your liking by clicking on the color palatte. If Option 2 is chosen and there are two players, each one of them can choose a different color. For option three, you’ll choose the color for player’s token and computer will choose a color randomly.

Now that the player(s)  and token color(s) are decided, dice button should be clicked to generate a random number and each player’s token will move as many number of boxes along the grid. For option 1, only one dice is required and that will be clicked to generate a number. For option 2, player one can use dice button and player will use dice 2 button. For option 3, player will use dice and computer will generate a random number automatically.

Now with rolling dice(s) and moving token(s), the fun part begins when token lands on a snake head or ladder base. Each snake has its own tail ending on a certain box, so whenever a token will land on a snake head, it will drop down to that snake’s tail. Similarly each ladder has its own top and when a token reaches that ladder’s base, it will jump up to the corresponding top box. There might be a few snake bites and ladder jumps before a player(s)’ token reaches beyond 100.

Once a player’s  token reaches beyond 100th box, that player will win, and game will stop. You’ll need to click restart button to start the game all over again.

## Planned Future Enhancements:
Following are some enhancements in line:
Add a few sounds and pop-ups with snake bites or ladder jumps.
Update the boxes so that they look more like squares rather than rectangular tiles.



